In the upper left hand corner of this panel there is an image of the Lovejoy Monument, in the Alton City Cemetery, erected in honor of Abolitionist, Martyr and Noted Journalist Elijah P. Lovejoy. It is the tallest monument in the state of Illinois.

*The Lovejoy Monument in Alton City Cemetery is a massive column of Barre granite 93 feet in height. The column is surrounded by a seventeen foot high bronze statue depicting “Victory”. Base of column is surrounded by a terrace, granite steps and walkways. Bronze plates on the memorial commemorate Lovejoy as---Martyr to Liberty---Champion of Free Speech---Minister of the Gospel. The last panel praises the valor and devotion of those citizens who risked their lives in Lovejoy’s defense,

It was designed By Robert Bringhurst and dedicated 60 years after Lovejoy’s death on November 18, 1897.

Moving over to the right side there is an image of Lincoln and Douglas.

On October 15, 1858, Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas, candidates for U.S. Senator from Illinois, staged a debate in Alton, the last of seven debates held throughout the state. Although Douglas won the election, Lincoln went on to become the 16th President of the United States.

The final debate is commemorated in sculptures located near the Alton Riverfront.

*The candidates arrived in Alton from Quincy aboard the Steamer “City of Louisiana” the day before the debate.

Lincoln stayed at the Franklin House (later known as the Lincoln Hotel) on Sate Street. Douglas made the Alton House his headquarters.

Moving to the left side and just below the Lovejoy Monument image, is the image of the Legendary Piasa Bird.

The Legendary Piasa Bird, painted high upon the bluffs, was addressed in the 1673 writings of French explorers Father Jacques Marquette and Louis Joliet.

Moving over to the right hand side are two images, one imbedded in the other. The larger image shows the exterior of The National Great Rivers Museum in Alton, features 20 interactive exhibits that allow visitors to learn how the Mighty Mississippi River has helped shape culture, history and ecology in Madison County and the United States. The imbedded image, in upper right hand corner, shows two children looking at an interactive exhibit.

Back over to the left hand side and just below the Piasa Bird image, is the Image of the flooded Mississippi River downtown. In 1993, the Mississippi River erupted from its banks and flood many parts of downtown Alton.

*This image shows the Peavey-Con Agra flour mill in the flood waters.

Moving over to the right hand side, the image is that of Visitor’s Center at the Melvin Price Locks and Dam.

From eight stories in the air, visitors can peer down on barges pushing their way through the Mel Price Locks and Dam, one of the largest locks and dams on the Mississippi River.

**The Mel Price Locks and Dam replace the original No.26. Construction began in 1978-Opened in 1989. Location—Alton, Illinois/West Alton, Missouri. Length---1,160 Feet,

Old no,26 was demolished in 1990-Dam 26 was plagued with structural deficiencies.

Just below the image of Mel Price Locks and Dam, we have an image of the Jerry F. Costello National Great Rivers Research and Education Center Confluence Field Station. Dedicated in October of 2010, it is located in Alton just south of the Melvin Price Locks and Dam, Its goal is to explore important questions about the rivers, the environment and the impact on the communities affected by the great water ways.

Moving down to the bottom, centered below Jerry F. Costello National Great Rivers Research and Educational Center image, is a sunset view image, of the Clark Bridge, which expands the Mississippi River from Alton to West Alton.

Information source:*Alton Illinois Pictorial History by C.Stetson

**U.S. Army Corps of Engineers-St.Louis