The Tower Project

Moro Township 121687 Tower 2 Panel 1-3

*Village of Moro started with the building of the railroad through Moro in 1853. Moro was laid out by James Smith and James Montgomery, and plat recorded on March 7, 1855.

In the Left hand side of panel begins the following text: Moro was originally named Hampton, but the name was changed when community leaders discovered there was already a Hampton, Illinois. The name was then changed to Moro. One notation states it was named “Moro” after David Morrow, a railroad construction engineer and was later shortened to Moro. The township took its name from the town.”

Moving over to the upper right hand side is a photo image of the Samuel Dorsey Home. Samuel Dorsey and his family are pictured in front of their home near Moro. Following his death in 1893. Dorsey’s obituary described his as a man who--made his way from poverty to comparative affluence, and died holding the esteem of all who knew him.”

Moving down and over to the left side, just below the text, is a photo image of the Henry DeWerff Home. Henry DeWerff was a prominent Moro resident who owned and operated a brick yard near the town. The 1882 History of Madison County states DeWerff----“produces a very fine quality of brick”---“has a well arranged yard with kiln and burns about 140,000 brick per year”.

This photo image of the DeWerff Home was taken from a ^tintype, circa 1885, (^tintype: images processed on thin sheets of metal)

Moving slightly down and over to the right Hand side we find a photo image of The Dorsey Silvertone Band in 1921. Musicians pictured in the band are William Bertels, Richard Bertels, William Lloyd, Carl Johnson, Paul Johnson, Bernard Bertels, Roy Bertels, Percy Heuer, Tony Kuchack, Louis Bertels, Gerhard Johnson, Wilfred Dietzel, John Enson, Alfred Johnson and Edwin Johnson.

Just below that is a replica of a prize ribbon with the text:” It’s a fact:” on the circle of the ribbon, on the streamer part of the ribbon text reads “ Moro School opened in 1888 when a group of early settlers met to form a school district.”

Down and over to the left hand side is a photo image of the Moro School, 1910’s .Just below the school image, there is a photo image of the teacher and about twenty–one students at the Moro School, February, 1908.

Moving to the right hand side of panel and about half way down to the school class photo image, there is a photo image of the Steirs Brothers open air coal/strip mine. Below this photo image the text reads: Beginning in 1934, during the height of the Great Depression, the Steirs Brothers construction Company of St. Louis, operated an open air coal mine or strip mine near Moro. The enterprise was unsuccessful and the mine was closed in 1935. This photo image is from 1934 showing a steam shovel loading coal into an open bed truck.

Moving down and left, there is a photo image of the Moro Depot in 1925. The Moro Depot is representative of many small communities that developed around a train depot where livestock and agriculture products were taken to be shipped. In 1853, track was laid through Moro, and eventually a rail line ran through the township. In 1854 depots were located in Moro and Dorsey.

Moving over to the left hand side and down, there are two photo images. The one on the left is of a “Red and White” grocery store and the other is of a billboard ad for bread. For decades Red & White grocery stores were fixtures in communities throughout Madison County and Southern Illinois. This 1939 photo image shows Nolte’s Red and White Store in Moro. Moving over to the right, there is the photo image of a billboard ad for Nolte’s and is also highlighting one of the stores staple products---bread.

If you move over to the right hand side, there is a photo image of Lindell Cooper and Kenneth Dorsey at work in the Stahl Store in Moro.

Sources: History of Madison County (Brinks)